We Begin this with breaking news now
from Rafa the Israeli Army has warned
all residents and displaced people to
leave the Eastern neighborhoods of Rafa
it says they must move to the AL maasi
area near the coastline that's ahead of
what it says will be the use of extreme
force in the eastern part of the city
more than 1 and a half million people
have been Sheltering in Rafa after the
Israeli Army forced them out of Northern
and Central
Gaza we're joined uh Now by hany Mahmud
who's in Rafa in southern Gaza hany
what's happening there on the ground
right
now yes we're following an intense night
of extreme air strikes Relentless air
strikes across the eastern and the
central part of RA City uh caused the uh
the murder of 20 people so far mostly
women and children there military as
early hours this morning issued
statements along with a map for
evacuation the orders are very extreme
very sharp and used intimidating
language describing what's going to
happen at the eastern part of the city
as with along with the use of extreme
force and extreme military operations
going to take place at the eastern part
of RA City that includes all the area
Eastern of Salah Road and almost close
to the center uh RAF City that's at the
Western uh part of Salah road that will
include definitely ra Crossings and as
of yesterday we we learned that K Salam
Crossing is being completely shut down
and the operation right now that that is
included uh ra right now including in
the evacuation orders will be uh closed
as soon as the operation is started in
the eastern part of of Raa City people
are in a state of panic and shock
despite that they expected that to
happen but did not expect it to happen
rapidly uh we we were approached by
people who asking about where are the
evacuation zones and we looked at the
maps and what what we've seen so far it
is stretches from the central area from
D balah City uh all passing through
kanun mainly in the central part of
kanun and the western part of hunis all
the way to the evacuation Zone here in
western part of City these are the three
major areas the uh this the uh the
leaflets designated as safe areas in
which they will be receiving according
to the leaflet uh dropped by the Israeli
military according to this LEF it says
this is where all the humanitarian
support will be directed uh that is
something indicating as many people
reacted to that that this operation is
going to be long and it's un it's
unclear without any time frame when it's
going to uh to end uh and that's what's
going on right now on the ground people
have started to uh to move toward the
central area and the uh the western part
of of raah City uh it's important also
to point out the past 3 days uh
witnessed the uh quiet evacuation sort
of people who uh somehow predicted that
the the talks in kir about the ceasefire
were not making any solid progress and
the Israel milit
uh uh in light of the growing threats of
expanding the operation into RAF City
they started to move quietly uh to areas
that are not designated by the Israeli
military as safe zones given the past
failures of the Israeli military to
assure that these evacuation zones are
in fact safe well indeed given that
throughout this SW and G as you say
there haven't been any so-called safe
areas what is the mood there now to this
news I mean how are people going to
[Music]
cope it's quite distressing right now
and we could we could see and we could
tell how worried people How concerned
they are there is a state of panic the
people who have already lost family
members that they were told to move to
evacuation zones are recalling these
times when they were ordered sharply to
move to certain designated areas as safe
Zone to get killed bombed and killed in
those areas whether here in RAF City or
the central area or uh in in the city of
Han units there is huge level of
mistrust now in the the Israeli
narrative in terms of evacuation zones
and uh what people are reacting this is
there you can't create a safe Zone in a
war zone the entire Gaza Strip is is
being relentlessly bombed whether it's
here and over crowded ra City all these
past months and in and despite the the
calls for the the ground Invasion which
seen by and perceived by many people as
a distraction because at the same time
the Israel military was extremely
bombing RAF City to a point where
destruction is quite visible in all the
roads across this overcrowded City there
rubbles are filling the roads everywhere
destroyed homes are everywhere so D
hasn't been safe at all within the past
7 months and since the uh the initial
weeks of of this genocidal uh War so
that's where people are not buying this
new Narrative of evacuation Zone because
there isn't any evacuation Zone at all
and the bombing included public
facilities honorable facilities uh
hospitals and we've seen how hospit were
stormed and we they came under military
siege for the past months now it's
important to point out right now that
part of the evacuation orders included a
naar hospital at the eastern part of RA
City it's part of the evacuation and the
the leaf clear clearly says that the
hospital should be uh
evacuated okay hany for now thank
you well Zan bzra is on the phone for a
SN from rala in the occupied West Bank
Zay a terrifying situation on the ground
in Gaza there but how is this likely to
feed into the ongoing ceasefire
talks well all of this follows an
Israeli Playbook we've seen before in
this conflict and others the order for
people to move came after a night of
tense Israeli bombing on Rafa which
followed attacks targeting the areas in
and around Rafa for days so this is an
escalation we've seen the same thing
happening in the West Bank escalation
longer than usual raids in the West Bank
TM is experiencing that this morning
we've seen the use of shoulder mounted
anti- Rockets ant anti-tank rockets on
people's homes this is an escalation
we're seeing so there is all this
military escalation in parallel to the
talks and it makes you think it is
either to try and negotiate from a
position of strength or it could be LIF
service to negotiations as a distraction
to be able to carry out these operation
and complete the objective that the
Israeli government laid out at the
beginning of this war which was to end
hamas's role completely end hamas's
influence and presence in Gaza now
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has been clear we have to
remind people that he has been clear for
for many many days and weeks now that
going into Rafa will happen whether
there is a deal uh with Hamas reached or
not and that is something negotiators
involved in these talks Aid agencies
every un organization has warned would
cause enormous suffering and hinder and
perhaps completely negate any Prospect
of a breakthrough in the hostage talks
but it seems from his actions that he
has made his decision z b rvi for now
thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer